Do you think that the Scandinavian model that has revealed that when you do make
things more equal,
you will find that people generally tend to gravitate more towards traditional
gender roles that th th does this,
do you think that this makes people happier?
Has it been observed that this is a uh Huh
beer result?
That's a good question though.
The indices of life satisfaction are pretty high and Scandinavia,
but I don't know if anybody has done an analysis that would indicate whether
the,
the sexual sorting is a contributor to that.
Oh,
that's a good question.
I mean,
the,
the general idea has been that the Scandinavians are happier because their
societies are more egalitarian,
but,
but they're not more egalitarian in the sense that men and women are also more
different.
So men and women are more different,
but the opportunities are more egalitarian.
Yeah.
So,
but so then,
and then the societies are more,
are more satisfied,
but it's tough because there's other variables because the Scandinavian
countries are relatively homogenous.
Right.
And more homogenous societies tend to be more peaceful and happier,
not,
not more diverse societies.
And they're also small countries,
so they're somewhat easier to govern and they tend to be wealthy.
So those,
so it'd be hard to parse out all those contributors,
right.
To figure out what it is that's making the Scandinavians relatively,
um,
content.
This is almost like a super tribe versus a country.
Yeah.
Right.
Well in and those,
those sorts of societies in some sense are easier to manage.
So there any benefit to this,
this
model that we could perhaps bring to the United States or to Canada and maybe
mitigate some of the issues that we have between the right and the left.
Like maybe there's some sort of a compromise that will lead to a,
a less less debate
dispute.
Well,
I think that you guys in the states are doing real well actually.
Personally.
I mean,
you know,
your,
your system of checks and balances seems to work out pretty well.
There's a fair bit of,
let's say left domination right now of,
of the mainstream media.
I think that's a reasonable claim and also of academia and of the
intelligentsia.
But the political system is skewed pretty hard to the Republican end of things
at the moment.
And so that's not a bad balance.
And then in the last election,
I mean it may be you could make a case perhaps that things had tilted a little
too far to the republican side,
but that they had got balanced out because the,
the Democrats took the house again and it seems like they were more moderate
Democrats.
That seems to be the Scuttlebutt.
So,
you know,
it isn't obvious to me that your system isn't functioning well.
I think that one of the things that's happening that's making things look more
contentious than they is that the mainstream media is under such assault by the
up and coming media forms,
including people like you,
that as their financial models deteriorate and as their journalistic standards
take a hit,
and as they lose their fact checkers and their time to be careful with the
stories,
they concentrate more on exaggerating the extremes to attract attention.
And so,
you know,
there was an article published in the Atlantic monthly about a month ago showing
that didn't,
it depends on how you calculate these things,
but that the radical leftists and the radical right wingers are only about 5% of
the population on each side.
And that Mo,
the vast majority of Americans considered themselves something approximating the
relatively silent majority.
And so I don't think that things are polarized is as badly as they seem.
And it is also the case right now that if you poll people and ask them about the
conditions of their life in the United States,
they tend to say that they're doing quite well,
but that other people aren't.
And so I think maybe,
I don't know this for sure,
but,
but I,
I think maybe that the technological pressure that's being put on the mainstream
media is driving extreme political views as a means of gathering the attention
of a shrinking market share.
That's,
that's a very interesting take on it.
And I wonder how detrimental that is to us as a whole because we are constantly
dealing with this click bait headline,
you know,
and every,
every everything is a dispute.
Everything's a war.
Everything's,
it's nerve wracking.
You know,
I mean,
I noticed this years ago,
cause I,
I really stopped watching the news old 25 years ago,
although I've been heavily involved in,
in the last two years.
Cause I noticed that most of what passed for news wasn't because my sense was,
well,
if it isn't important in a month,
if it isn't important a month from now,
it was never important.
And almost everything that's news is like important right now.
And so I tried to stay away from that and it was better for my peace of mind.
And I often recommended to my clinical clients who were depressed and anxious
that they shield themselves from the news as much as possible.
But now there's the news is everywhere,
right?
It's everywhere.
It's Twitter,
it's Facebook,
it's youtube.
It's like we're just inundated by it.
It's like CNN on steroids.
It's 24 hour news cycle and it's produced by everyone,
whether they're,
um,
informed or not.
And it's really high emotion.
And I think that that is making things look a lot worse to us than they actually
are.